\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@settitle Free Pascal User's Guide
@setfilename fpc-users-guide.info

@c Create a separate index for command line options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Merge the standard indexes into a single one.
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp

@paragraphindent 2
@documentlanguage en_US
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
@format
@dircategory Free Pascal and Lazarus
@direntry
* Free Pascal User's Guide: (fpc).      The Free Pascal User's Guide.
@end direntry
@end format
@insertcopying
@end ifinfo

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2021 Michaël Van Canneyt and Florian Klämpfl,
2024 Stefan-Iulian Alecu.

@quotation
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Free Pascal User's Guide
@author Michaël Van Canneyt and Florian Klämpfl
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@node Top
@top Free Pascal User's Guide

@menu
* Introduction::                The introduction.
* Installing::                  Installing the Free Pascal compiler.
@end menu

@include introduction.texi
@include installing.texi

@bye

