@c Copyright (C) 2021 Michaël Van Canneyt and Florian Klämpfl, 2024 Stefan-Iulian Alecu.
@c This is part of the Free Pascal User's Guide.
@c For copying conditions, see the file fpc-users-guide.texi.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@node About this document
@section About this document

This is the user’s guide for Free Pascal. It describes the
installation and use of the Free Pascal compiler on the different
supported platforms. It does not attempt to give an exhaustive list of
all supported commands, nor a definition of the Pascal language. Look
at the Reference Guide for these things. For a description of the
possibilities and the inner workings of the compiler, see the
Programmer’s Guide. In the appendices of this document you will find
lists of reserved words and compiler error messages (with
descriptions).

This document describes the compiler as it is/functions at the time of
writing. First consult the README and FAQ files, distributed with the
compiler. The README and FAQ files are, in case of conflict with this
manual, authoritative.

@node About the compiler
@section About the compiler

Free Pascal is a 32-- and 64--bit Pascal compiler. The current version
(3.2.2) can compile code for the following processors (the list is not
exhaustive):

@itemize @bullet
@item
Intel i386 and higher (i486, Pentium family and higher);

@item
AMD64/x86_64;

@item
PowerPC (and PowerPC64);

@item
SPARC;

@item
ARM;

@item
The Motorola 68000 (m68k) processors are supported by an older version;

@item
JVM (Java Virtual Machine);

@item
JavaScript;

@item
aarch64;

@item
Intel 8086.
@end itemize

The compiler and Run-Time Library are available for the following
operating systems:

@itemize @bullet
@item
MS-DOS;

@item
Linux;

@item
Windows;

@item
Mac OS X, macOS and iOS;

@item
Amiga (version 0.99.5 only);

@item
OS/2 (optionally using the EMX package, so it also works on MS-DOS/Windows);

@item
FreeBSD;

@item
BeOS;

@item
Solaris;

@item
NetBSD;

@item
Netware;

@item
OpenBSD;

@item
MorphOS;

@item
Symbian.
@end itemize

The complete list is at all times available on the @url{https://www.freepascal.org/,Free Pascal
website}.

Free Pascal is designed to be, as much as possible, language and
source-level compatible with ISO Pascal, Mac Pascal, Turbo Pascal 7.0
and most (if not all) versions of Delphi. It achieves this through a
system of compiler directives which tell the compiler what language is
targeted (they can be mixed to a certain degree).

It also differs from them in the sense that you cannot use compiled
units from one system for the other, i.e. you cannot use @acronym{TP,
Turbo Pascal} compiled units.

Also, there is a text version of an @acronym{IDE, Integrated
Development Environment} available for Free Pascal. Users that prefer
a graphical IDE can have a look at the
@url{https://www.lazarus-ide.org/,Lazarus} or
@url{https://mseide-msegui.sourceforge.io/,MSEIDE} projects.

Free Pascal consists of several parts:

@enumerate
@item
The compiler program itself;
@item
The Run-Time Library (RTL);
@item
The packages. This is a collection of many utility units, ranging from
the whole Windows 32 API, through native ZIP/BZIP file handling to the
whole GTK-2 interface;
@item
The Free Component Library. This is a set of class-based utility units
which give a database framework, image support, web support, XML
support and many, many more;
@item
Utility programs and units.
@end enumerate

Of these you only need the first two, in order to be able to use the
compiler. In this document, we describe the use of the compiler and
utilities. The supported (Object) Pascal Language constructs are
described in the Reference Guide, and the available routines (units)
are described in the RTL and FCL Unit reference guides.

@node Getting more information
@section Getting more information

If the documentation doesn't give an answer to your questions, you can
obtain more information on the Internet, at the following addresses:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@url{http://www.freepascal.org/} is the main site. It contains useful
mail addresses and links to other places, as well as instructions for
subscribing to the mailing list.
@item
@url{http://forum.lazarus.freepascal.org/} is a forum site where
questions can be posted.
@end itemize

Other than that, some mirrors exist.

Finally, if you think something should be added to this manual, please
do not hesitate and contact @email{michael@@freepascal.org, Michaël
Van Canneyt}. If you notice any mistakes in this Texinfo manual (typos
or anything else), email @email{stefan.alecu2001@@gmail.com,me} or
make an issue at
@url{https://github.com/overanalytcl/fpclaz-texinfo/issues,this
link}. This work is on a best-effort basis, and as such mistakes can
creep in.

Let’s get on with something useful.
